Ipa interface overview (#1)
KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/IPAuthoring_interfaces_overview/mm-host/Readme.md

# Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces

> This example design demonstrate a simple vector addition kernel that uses explicitly declared Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces to transfer data.
> 
> This design will show how to explicitly declared Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces and how to customize their properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use `annotated_ptr` to customize the memory-mapped host data interface.
```

## Invocation Interface

> By default, an un-decorated oneAPI kernel will have all its control signals and arguments passed through an MM-Agent interface.

Reviewer: see comment i left in naive.

Also, please include a figure from here (you may need to customize... let me know if you can't find one in here
https://intel-my.sharepoint.com/personal/paul_white_intel_com/Documents/Documentation/HLS%20Docs/kernel-top-levels.vsdx?web=1

## Data Interface - MM Host

> By default, all the pointer members are implemented with MM Host interfaces. In this example design, interface `A_in`, `B_in`, `C_in` are explicitly declared with MM Host interfaces in order to customize their properties.

Reviewer 2: 'C_out'

> By default, all the pointer members are implemented with MM Host interfaces. In this example design, interface `A_in`, `B_in`, `C_in` are explicitly declared with MM Host interfaces in order to customize their properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pointer arguments `A_in`, `B_in`, `C_out` and scalar argument `len` are passed through the IP component's CSR. In this example design, the memory-mapped host interfaces pointed to by `A_in`, `B_in`, `C_out` are customized using `annotated_ptr`.
```

> You can customize memory-mapped interfaces of your IP component if the component uses a unified shared memory (USM) host pointer to access data. To customize the interface, use a functor to specify the component and declare your interfaces with templated type `annotated_arg` or `annotated_ptr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize memory-mapped interfaces of your IP component if the component uses a unified shared memory (USM) host pointer to access data. To customize the interface, declare your pointer arguments with the templated type `annotated_ptr`.
```

`annotated_arg`/`annotated_ptr` support is enabled by including either of the following include statements in your design:
```cpp
#include <sycl/ext/oneapi/annotated_arg/annotated_arg.hpp>
```
Or
```cpp
#include <sycl/ext/intel/fpga_extensions.hpp>

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

no need to mention this; `fpga_extensions` is included anyway

### `annotated_arg` vs `annotated_ptr`

> You should use `annotated_ptr` for interfaces that are pointer functor members, and for other functor members, use `annotated_arg`. For detail, see [mmhost]() code sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use `annotated_ptr` for data interfaces that are pointer functor members, and for other functor members, use `annotated_arg`. For detail, see [mmhost]() code sample.
```

### Declare `annotated_arg`/`annotated_ptr`
Explicit MM Host should be declared as functor member of your kernel:
```cpp

>   sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<type, properies>

Reviewer 2: sycl::ext...<type, _**properties**_>

Reviewer: only need to show `annotated_ptr` here.

>   sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_ptr<type_of_pointer, properies>

Reviewer 2: sycl::ext...<type, properties>

>   sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_ptr<type_of_pointer, properies>

Reviewer: @chanjunc-intel you can make suggestions by clicking the 'add a suggestion' button in the Github comment window:
![image](https://github.com/KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork/assets/86071037/d7ec4103-b8f6-42d5-a596-e3ee5bbf9af4)

Reviewer 2: Oh. Didn't know that. Thanks

```
### MM Host Properties

> The `properties` template parameter is the type of a SYCL properties class object, including an unordered list of any of the compile-time properties listed in the following table.

Reviewer: I don't think we need this table here; those properties will be discussed in the Avalon memory-mapped host tutorial and documentation.

 `wait_request_requested`/ `wait_request_not_requested`                    | Directive for adding the waitrequest signal that is asserted by the agent when it is unable to respond to a read or write request.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `wait_request_not_requested` |  `wait_request_requested`/ `wait_request_not_requested`                    

> ### Example of MM Host declaretion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of how to use `annotated_ptr` to customize an Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```

> `annotated_ptr`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - For non-POSIX shells, like csh, use the following command: `bash -c 'source <install-dir>/setvars.sh ; exec csh'`
>
> Windows*:
> - `C:\Program Files(x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat`
> - Windows PowerShell*, use the following command: `cmd.exe "/K" '"C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat" && powershell'`
>
> For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux* or macOS*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html) or [Use the setvars Script with Windows*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

### On Linux*

1. Change to the sample directory.
2. Configure the build system for the Agilex™ 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   ```

   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ``` 
   >

>    > Alternatively, you can target an explicit FPGA board variant and BSP by using the following command: 
>    >  ```
>    >  cmake .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant> -DIS_BSP=1
>    >  ``` 
>    >
>    > You will only be able to run an executable on the FPGA if you specified a BSP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This code  sample does not support a board variant

3. Compile the design. (The provided targets match the recommended development flow.)

   1. Compile for emulation (fast compile time, targets emulated FPGA device).
      ```
      make fpga_emu
      ```

   2. Compile for simulation (fast compile time, targets simulator FPGA device):
      ```
      make fpga_sim
      ```

   3. Generate HTML performance report.
      ```
      make report
      ```
      The report resides at `vector_add.report.prj/reports/report.html`.

   4. Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device).
      ```
      make fpga
      ```

### On Windows*

1. Change to the sample directory.
2. Configure the build system for the Agilex™ 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```

  > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
  >  ```
  >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
  >  ``` 

>   >
>   > Alternatively, you can target an explicit FPGA board variant and BSP by using the following command: 
>   >  ```
>   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant> -DIS_BSP=1
>   >  ``` 
>   >
>   > You will only be able to run an executable on the FPGA if you specified a BSP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  >
  > Alternatively, you can target an explicit FPGA board variant and BSP by using the following command: 
  >  ```
  >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant> -DIS_BSP=1
  >  ``` 
  >
  > You will only be able to run an executable on the FPGA if you specified a BSP.
```

This code sample doesn't support full-system

   1. Compile for emulation (fast compile time, targets emulated FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga_emu
      ```
   2. Compile for simulation (fast compile time, targets simulator FPGA device):
      ```
      nmake fpga_sim
      ```
   3. Generate HTML performance report.
      ```
      nmake report
      ```
      The report resides at `vector_add_report.a.prj/reports/report.html`.

   4. Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga
      ```

>**Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example `C:\samples\build`. You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Run the Design

### On Linux

#### Run on FPGA Emulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU).
   ```
   ./vector_add.fpga_emu
   ```

#### Run on FPGA Simulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA simulator.
   ```
   CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=1 ./vector_add.fpga_sim
   ```

> #### Run on FPGA
> 
> 1. Run the sample on the FPGA device (only if you ran `cmake` with `-DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant>`).
>    ```
>    ./vector_add.fpga
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

not supported

### On Windows

#### Run on FPGA Emulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU).
   ```
   vector_add.fpga_emu.exe
   ```

#### Run on FPGA Simulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA simulator.
   ```
   set CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=1
   vector_add.fpga_sim.exe
   set CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=
   ```

> #### Run on FPGA
> 
> 1. Run the sample on the FPGA device (only if you ran `cmake` with `-DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant>`).
>    ```
>    vector_add.fpga.exe
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

not supported
